
                 M.A.M.E.  -  Multiple Arcade Machine Emulator
          Copyright (C) 1997-2001 by Nicola Salmoria and The MAME Team

Many people have helped with this project--directly, or by releasing the source
code for the drivers they have written. We are not trying to take credit that
isn't ours. See the Acknowledgments section for a list of contributors. Please
note, however, that the list is largely incomplete. Also see the comments in
the source code to see the people who contributed to specific drivers. That
list, too, may be incomplete. We apologize for any omission.

All trademarks cited in this document are property of their respective owners.


For usage instructions, please consult the corresponding readme.

MS-DOS:   msdos.txt
Windows:  windows.txt



Usage and Distribution License
------------------------------

See license.txt



How to Contact Us
-----------------

The official MAME homepage is http://www.mame.net/  You can always find the
latest release there, including beta versions and information on things being
worked on. Also, a totally legal and free ROM set of Robby Roto is available
on the same page.

If you have bugs to report, check the MAME Testing Project at
http://www.mametesters.com

Here are some of the people contributing to MAME. If you have comments,
suggestions, or bug reports about an existing driver, check the driver's
source code to find who has worked on it, and send comments to that person.
If you are not sure who to contact, write to Nicola. If you have comments
specific to a system other than DOS (e.g. Mac, Win32, Unix), they should be
sent to the respective port maintainer (check the documentation to know who he
is). DON'T SEND THEM TO NICOLA - they will be ignored.

Nicola Salmoria    MC6489@mclink.it

Mike Balfour       mab22@po.cwru.edu
Aaron Giles        agiles@sirius.com
Chris Moore        chris.moore@writeme.com
Brad Oliver        bradman@pobox.com
Andrew Scott       ascott@utkux.utcc.utk.edu
Zsolt Vasvari      vaszs01@banet.net
Luca Elia          l.elia@tin.it

DON'T SEND BINARY ATTACHMENTS WITHOUT ASKING FIRST, *ESPECIALLY* ROM IMAGES.

THESE ARE NOT SUPPORT ADDRESSES. Support questions sent to these addresses
*will* be ignored. Please understand that this is a *free* project, mostly
targeted at experienced users. We don't have the resources to provide end user
support. Basically, if you can't get the emulator to work, you are on your own.
First of all, read the docs carefully. If you still can't find an answer to
your question, try checking the beginner's sections that many emulation pages
have, or ask on the appropriate Usenet newsgroups (e.g. comp.emulators.misc) or
on the official MAME message board at http://www.mame.net/msg/

For help in compiling MAME, check these pages:
http://www.mame.net/compile.html
http://www.mameworld.net

Also, DO NOT SEND REQUESTS FOR NEW GAMES TO ADD, unless you have some original
info on the game hardware or, even better, own the board and have the technical
expertise needed to help us.
Please don't send us information widely available on the Internet - we are
perfectly capable of finding it ourselves, thank you.



Acknowledgments
---------------

First of all, thanks to Allard van der Bas (avdbas@wi.leidenuniv.nl) for
starting the Arcade Emulation Programming Repository at
http://valhalla.ph.tn.tudelft.nl/emul8
Without the Repository, I would never have even tried to write an emulator.
Unfortunately, the original Repository is now closed, but its spirit lives
on in MAME.

Z80 emulator Copyright (c) 1998 Juergen Buchmueller, all rights reserved.
M6502 emulator Copyright (c) 1998 Juergen Buchmueller, all rights reserved.
Hu6280 Copyright (c) 1999 Bryan McPhail, mish@tendril.force9.net
I86 emulator by David Hedley, modified by Fabrice Frances (frances@ensica.fr)
M6809 emulator by John Butler, based on L.C. Benschop's 6809 Simulator V09.
M6808 based on L.C. Benschop's 6809 Simulator V09.
M68000 emulator Copyright 1999 Karl Stenerud.  All rights reserved.
80x86 M68000 emulator Copyright 1998, Mike Coates, Darren Olafson.
8039 emulator by Mirko Buffoni, based on 8048 emulator by Dan Boris.
T-11 emulator Copyright (C) Aaron Giles 1998
TMS34010 emulator by Alex Pasadyn and Zsolt Vasvari.
TMS9900 emulator by Andy Jones, based on original code by Ton Brouwer.
Cinematronics CPU emulator by Jeff Mitchell, Zonn Moore, Neil Bradley.
Atari AVG/DVG emulation based on VECSIM by Hedley Rainnie, Eric Smith and
Al Kossow.

TMS5220 emulator by Frank Palazzolo.
AY-3-8910 emulation based on various code snippets by Ville Hallik,
  Michael Cuddy, Tatsuyuki Satoh, Fabrice Frances, Nicola Salmoria.
YM-2203, YM-2151, YM3812 emulation by Tatsuyuki Satoh.
POKEY emulator by Ron Fries (rfries@aol.com).
Many thanks to Eric Smith, Hedley Rainnie and Sean Trowbridge for information
   on the Pokey random number generator.
NES sound hardware info by Jeremy Chadwick and Hedley Rainne.
YM2610 emulation by Hiromitsu Shioya.

Background art by Peter Hirschberg (PeterH@cronuscom.com).

Allegro library by Shawn Hargreaves, 1994/97
SEAL Synthetic Audio Library API Interface Copyright (C) 1995, 1996
   Carlos Hasan. All Rights Reserved.
Video modes created using Tweak 1.6b by Robert Schmidt, who also wrote
   TwkUser.c.
"inflate" code for zip file support by Mark Adler.

DOS executable compressed with UPX by Markus F.X.J. Oberhumer & Laszlo Molnar,
    http://upx.tsx.org/

Big thanks to Gary Walton (garyw@excels-w.demon.co.uk) for too many things
   to mention.

Thanks to Brian Deuel, Neil Bradley, and the Retrocade dev team for allowing us
to use Retrocade's game history database.

Thanks to Richard Bush for info on several games.

Thanks to Dave (www.finalburn.com) for info on After Burner.

and thanks to everyone else I forgot.
